Calamaris
Version 3

Are there known bugs or other problems?
---------------------------------------

* The Content-Type-stats for some elff-logging-proxies are broken, i have to
  check why.

* RedHat 8.0 has set the LANG-Variable to en_US.UTF-8, which caused Calamaris
  to crash with 'Split loop at (eval 1) line 21, <> line 1', maybe due to a
  perl-bug. (Investigation needed). You can workaround this problem by
  unsetting LANG. Please see
  https://bugzilla.redhat.com/bugzilla/show_bug.cgi?id=77437 .

* There is a problem if you parse Logfiles from accelerating proxies. In
  iPlanet Web Proxy Server there is only an 'unqualified' URL in the Logfiles,
  which confuses all reports that rely on that field. (reported by Pawel
  Worach <pawel.worach@nordea.com>)

* Calamaris can't resolve IPv6-IPs to DNS-Names yet. If you can tell me how i
  can do it in perl, let me know ;-)

* the byte-histogram sometimes displays a 0-0-byte line. this is correct. the
  requests added there are really logged as 0-byte-sized in the Logfile. Note
  that empty byte-ranges as 1-9 (which is impossible because of
  protocol-overhead) are skipped and not displayed in the report, so you can
  end up with 0-0 followed by 10-99 in the report. (noted by Reagan Blundell
  <reagan@muppet.whatever.net.au> through Debian-Bug-Tracking)

* there were many requests to add something that enables Calamaris to track
  down who is using the Cache to get what. I added these with stomach-ache,
  because it breaks the privacy of the users. So please read the following
  and think about it, before using Calamaris to be the 'Big Brother':

  - If you don't trust your users than there is something more wrong than
    the loss of productivity.
  - Squid has some nice acl-mechanisms. If you think that your users don't
    use the net properly, don't let them use it. (You can also open the net
    at specific times or to specific sites, if you want.)

  If you still want to use Calamaris that way, let your vict^Wusers know
  that they'll be monitored. (in Germany you have to let them know!)

  After some discussion in a newsgroup i was 'accused' to not announce the
  spy-features of Calamaris. THIS IS INTENTIONAL. This is MY program, it can
  spy on users, because there are many people who want to have that feature,
  but what i write on the feature-sheet is MY decision. Don't annoy me, you
  might damage my motivation to maintain this FREE (as in speech) piece of
  software.

* In Calamaris V3 I use a new Cache-File-Format, which is incompatible with
  the old V2-Format. You can convert V2-cache to V3-cache with the
  calamaris-convert-cache-script, but it will only make the old data readable
  for the new version. You'll notice that the missing data, which wasn't
  calculated in the old version will result in sometimes strange results in
  the output.

* If you reuse a cache-file, which is not created with
  '-d -1 -r -1 -t -1 -R -1' the number of 'others' is likely wrong everywhere.
  (reported by Clare Lahiff <clare@tarboosh.anu.edu.au>)

  If i store the number of 'others' somewhere i still don't know which data is
  ment there, and in the next run (if i sum up) the number of others is to
  high (if the number of occurrences is below the threshold) or the summed up
  data misses the occurrences of the last run (if the number of occurances is
  above the threshold). i think i can't fix this...

* If you want to parse more than one logfile (i.e. from the 'logfilerotate')
  or want to use more than one input-cache-file you have to put them in
  chronological sorted order (oldest first), else you get wrong peak values.

  However: If you use the caching function the peak-values can be wrong,
  because peaks occurring during log-rotate-time can't be detected.

  Calamaris will add a warning to the report if it recognises unsorted input.

* Squid with SmartFilter-Patch and Cisco Content Engines have the ability to
  block or allow requests by checking against a database, and write this to
  the Logfiles. I will not add a report to give an overview about the usage
  of the Categories. (see first point of this chapter.)

* Squid doesn't log outgoing UDP-Requests, so i can't put them into the
  statistics without parsing squid.conf and the cache.log-file. (Javier Puche
  <Javier.Puche@rediris.es> asked for this), but i don't think that i should
  put this into Calamaris...

* Squid and NetCache also support some kind of 'Common Logfile-format'.  I
  won't support that, because Common Log is missing some very important data
  i.e. the request-time and the hierarchie-information. If you're still stuck
  with that format, i recommend the 'analog'-software by Steven Turner. Other
  way round:  change logging to 'native' and convert it to 'common'. There is
  software for that available, i.e. my shrimp.pl. This also applies for the
  Common-style Log-files which NetCache produces.

* If you use Calamaris at UNIX-epoch-date 2147483648 or later (~19.Jan 2038)
  you might get wrong dates on 32bit-systems.  (I just added this to delight
  the people who really read this ;-) and to make a statement on this... on
  Y2K they found many systems which wasn't expected to run in that year. If
  you read this while checking if this package is Y2K038-compatible, then
  this is probably a really old system ;-)
  Y2038-Statement: Calamaris is as buggy as the used perl-version.

* It is written in Perl. Yea, Perl is a great language for something like this
  (also it is the only one I'm able to write something like this in ;-).
  Calamaris was first intended as demo for what i expect from a statistical
  software. (OK, it is fun to write it, and it is even more fun to recognise
  that many people use the script). For my Caches with about 150MB logfile per
  week it is OK, but for those people on a heavy loaded Parent-cache it is
  possibly to slow.  How does it perform with the perlcc coming in Perl5.6 or
  Perl6?


Version of the BUGS
-------------------

$Id: BUGS,v 3.1 2006-03-19 16:10:53 cord Exp $
